DED-260 reorganizing authorisation content (#1212)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: src/pages/authorization/agent-authorization/index.mdx

---
weight: 20
category: "authorization"
subcategory: "agent-authorization"
title: "Agent Authorization"
tagline: "Going through authorization in practice."
desc: "Learn how to authorize your app to send a sample request using our Messaging APIs. A step-by-step tutorial that guides you through the process."
---

> # Agent authorization flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Introduction

To call LiveChat APIs, you need to authorize your calls with an access token. This document describes three authorization flows that let you acquire a token:

- Personal Access Token
- Implicit flow
- Authorization code grant
```

Reviewer: The same changes would apply to the Customer authorization doc

> All of the following authorization flows let your app acquire an `access_token`. With this token, the app can call the following APIs on behalf of an agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the acquired token, you can the following APIs on behalf of an agent:
```

- the Agent Chat API
- the Configuration API
- LiveChat Accounts API
- HelpDesk API
- Reports API

> To make calls to Customer Chat API, you need a different `access_token`. For that, see [Customer Authorisation](/authorization/customer-authorization/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make calls to Customer Chat API, you need a different `access_token`. For that, see [Customer Authorisation](/authorization/customer-authorization/).

# Postman collection

<here you can copy the content from the "Authorizing API calls" document>
```

> To make calls to Customer Chat API, you need a different `access_token`. For that, see [Customer Authorisation](/authorization/customer-authorization/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make calls to Customer Chat API, you need a different `access_token`. For that, see [Customer Authorization](/authorization/customer-authorization/).
```

---
weight: 20
category: "authorization"
subcategory: "agent-authorization"
title: "Agent Authorization"
tagline: "Going through authorization in practice."
desc: "Learn how to authorize your app to send a sample request using our Messaging APIs. A step-by-step tutorial that guides you through the process."

> ---

Reviewer: You need to go through our other API documents (Agent Chat, Customer, COnfiguration, Reports, etc.) and check the Authorization section. There are links that might need to be updates, for example https://developers.livechat.com/docs/messaging/agent-chat-api#authorization

Author: Okay, I did not think about that. I am doing it now

How does the Authorization code grant flow work with PKCE?

- The client generates `code_verifier` from the following characters: `[A-Z] / [a-z] / [0-9] / "-" / "." / "_" / "~"`. It's between 43 and 128 characters long.
- The client generates `code_challenge` with `code_challenge_method` as follows:
  - `plain` - `code_challenge` = `code_verifier`, when no `code_challenge_method` is present, then `plain` is assumed.
  - `S256` - `code_challenge` = `b64(s256(ascii(code_verifier)))` where `b64` is Base64 URL encoding and `s256` is the `SHA256` hash function.
- The client sends `code_challenge` in the authorization request.
- The server responds with the code.
- The client sends `code_verifier` during the exchane of the for an access token.
- The server performs an additional validation for `code_challenge` and `code_verifier`. Upon successful validation, it returns the access token.

💡 To see code samples with PKCE parameters, use the dropdown list.

<div style={{maxWidth: '400px'}}>
  <img src="/images/authorization/livechat-code-samples-versions-2x-small.png" alt="LiveChat code samples with PKCE" width="400px" height="185px"/>
</div>

## Step 1: Create an app

> If you don't have an app yet, start by creating one in <a href="https://developers.livechat.com/console/" target="_blank">**Developer Console**</a>. The app is a LiveChat OAuth 2.1 Client with its **Id** and **Secret**. You need to configure the Authorization building block of your application. [See the guide](/getting-started/authorization/authorization-in-practice/#step-1-configure-the-authorization-building-block) to learn how to do that.

Reviewer: **See the guide** doesn't work

| `refresh_token`   | A token that can be used to generate new access tokens. Returned optionally.                                                                                                                                                               |
| `token_type`      | Value: `Bearer`                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

💡 **Got stuck? See common** [**Errors**](#errors).

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'VALIDATE AN ACCESS TOKEN'}>

```shell
curl "https://accounts.livechat.com/v2/info"
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <access_token>"
```

</CodeSample>
<CodeResponse title={'response'}>

```json
{
    "access_token": "dal:test_YTJQ6GDVgQf8kQDPw",
    "account_id": "bbe8b147-d60e-46ac-a1e5-1e94b11ea6e1",
    "client_id": "9cbf3a968289727cb3cdfe83ab1d9836",
    "expires_in": 28725,
    "organization_id": "390e44e6-f1e6-0368c-z6ddb-74g14508c2ex",
    "scope": "chats--all:ro,chats--all:rw",
    "token_type": "Bearer"
}
```

</CodeResponse>
</Code>

> </Section>

Reviewer: # Errors
`<link to /authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#errors>`

Reviewer: We left the Errors section in the Authorizing API calls, which is not optimal, as errors should be close to methods. But we would have to duplicate the content - paste it into the Agent authorization and Customer authorization docs, which isn't optimal either :/ 

I propose to add the Errors section in both Agent authorization and Customer authorization and link to Erros in the Authorizing API calls document.

Author: Okay, I agree that seems most reasonable
